#summary PanoramaGL library simple guideline.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

This guide is a simple guideline to use _*PanoramaGL 0.1*_ library, for more details please check _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/HelloPanoramaGL.zip HelloPanoramaGL]*_ example.

= Details =

==1. How to import PanoramaGL library?==
----

==1.1. From source code==

a. Download _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/PanoramaGL_0.1.zip PanoramaGL_0.1.zip]*_ or download the source code from _*[http://code.google.com/p/panoramagl-android/source/checkout repository]*_<br/>
b. If you download the zip file then decompress the file<br/>
c. Import PanoramaGL project with Eclipse:
	- Go to *File->Import* menu<br/>
	- Select *"Existing Projects into Workspace"* and click on *"Next"* button<br/>
	- Click on *"Browse"* button and select PanoramaGL project folder<br/>
	- Click on *"Finish"* button
d. Right click on your project and select *"Properties"* option<br/>
e. Select on left panel *"Android"* option<br/>
f. In right panel go to *"Library"* section and click on *"Add..."* button<br/>
g. Select *"PanoramaGL"* library and click on *"OK"* button<br/>
h. Accept the changes selecting the *"OK"* button on right bottom corner in properties window<br/>

==1.2. From the compiled files==

a. Download _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/libglues.zip libglues.zip]*_<br/>
b. Decompress the zip file and copy *"libs"* folder in your project<br/>
c. Download _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/PanoramaGL_0.1.jar PanoramaGL_0.1.jar]*_<br/>
d. Copy jar file in *"libs"* folder in your project<br/>
e. Import jar file in your project:
	- Right click on your project and select *"Properties"* option<br/>
	- Select on left panel *"Java Build Path"* option<br/>
	- Select *"Libraries"* tabulator<br/>
	- Click on *"Add JARs..."* button<br/>
	- Select *"libs/PanoramaGL_0.1.jar"* file from your project<br/>
	- Click on *"OK"* button<br/>
	- Accept the changes selecting the *"OK"* button on right bottom corner in properties window

==2. How to use PanoramaGL in your application?==
----

a. Import the library as described on previous literal<br/>
b. Import a spherical image _*(e.g pano_sphere.jpg)*_ in *"res/raw"* folder<br/>
c. In the Activity class that you need to do a panoramic viewer, do the next changes:
	
	- Inherit from PLView class
{{{
public class YourActivity extends PLView
}}}
	- Inside of onCreate method load the panoramic image
{{{
@Override
public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState)
{
	super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
	PLSphericalPanorama panorama = new PLSphericalPanorama();
	panorama.setImage(this.getCurrentGL(), PLImage.imageWithBitmap(PLUtils.getBitmap(this, R.raw.pano_sphere)));
	this.setPanorama(panorama);
}
}}}

*_Note:_* You can load panoramic images from other methods or events if you need it.

==3. Simple JSON Protocol==
----
Also, you can use JSON protocol to load panoramas. 

*_Note:_* JSON protocol is limited for local files in this version.

===3.1. Source code===
{{{
this.load(new PLJSONLoader(this, "res://raw/json_spherical"));
}}}
*_Note:_* For this code, I have a file named *"json_spherical.data"* in *"res/raw"* folder in my application.

or

{{{
this.load(new PLJSONLoader(this, "file:///sdcard/files/json_spherical.data"));
}}}
*_Note:_* For this code, I have a file named *"json_spherical.data"* in *"/sdcard/files"* folder in the Android device. 

===3.2. JSON Protocol===

{{{
{
    "urlBase": "file:///sdcard/files",	//URL base where the files are
    					//The options are res:// for application resources and file:// for file system (this feature will be improved to support the http protocol)
    "type": "spherical",        	//Panorama type: [spherical, spherical2, cubic, cylindrical]
    "sensorialRotation": false, 	//Automatic rotation using sensors [true, false] <Optional>
    "scrolling":			//Scrolling section <Optional>
    {
        "enabled": false		//Enable scrolling feature [true, false] <Optional>
    },
    "inertia":				//Inertia section <Optional>
    {
        "enabled": false,		//Enable inertia feature [true, false] <Optional>
        "interval": 3			//Inertia's interval in seconds <Optional>
    },
    "accelerometer":			//Accelerometer section <Optional>
    {
        "enabled": false,		//Enable the accelerometer feature [true, false] <Optional>
        "interval": 0.033,		//Update interval of accelerometer (this value must be calculated as 1/frequency) <Optional>
        "sensitivity": 10.0,		//Sensitivity of the accelerometer <Optional>
        "leftRightEnabled": true,	//Enable the direction of movement with the accelerometer (left/right) <Optional>
        "upDownEnabled": false		//Enable the direction of movement with the accelerometer (up/down) <Optional>
    },
    "images":                   	//Panoramic images section
    					//A property can be a name e.g. preview.jpg, preview or URL e.g. file:///sdcard/files/preview.jpg, res://raw/preview
    					//if a property only have a name, the real path will be the urlBase + image name
    {
        "preview": "preview.jpg",	//Preview image name or URL (this option will be used with http protocol) <Optional>
        "image": "pano.jpg"     	//Panoramic image name or URL for spherical, spherical2 and cylindrical panoramas
        "front": "front.jpg",		//Front image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
        "back": "back.jpg",     	//Back image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
        "left": "left.jpg",     	//Left image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
        "right": "right.jpg",   	//Right image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
        "up": "up.jpg",         	//Up image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
        "down": "down.jpg"      	//Down image name or URL for cubic panorama (only use with cubic panorama)
    },
    "camera":                   	//Camera settings section <Optional>
    {
        "vlookat": 0,           	//Initial vertical position [-90, 90]
        "hlookat": 0,           	//Initial horizontal position [-180, 180]
        "atvmin": -90,          	//Min vertical position [-90, 90]
        "atvmax": 90,           	//Max vertical position [-90, 90]
        "athmin": -180,         	//Min horizontal position [-180, 180]
        "athmax": 180           	//Max horizontal position [-180, 180]
    },
    "hotspots": [               	//Hotspots section (this section is an array of hotspots) <Optional>
                 {
                 "id": 1,               //Hotspot identifier (long)
                 "atv": 0,              //Vertical position [-90, 90]
                 "ath": 0,              //Horizontal position [-180, 180]
                 "width": 0.08,         //Width
                 "height": 0.08,        //Height
                 "image": "hotspot.png" //Image name or URL
                 }
                ]
}
}}}

===3.3. See===

_PLJSONLoader_ class and _PLView_ load method.<br/>
The files _json_spherical.data_, _json_spherical2.data_, _json_cylindrical.data_ and _json_cubic.data_ in *"res/raw"* folder of _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/HelloPanoramaGL.zip HelloPanoramaGL]*_ example.

==4. More information==
----
For more details, please check _*[http://panoramagl-android.googlecode.com/files/HelloPanoramaGL.zip HelloPanoramaGL]*_ example, this example is compatible with Android 2.x or higher.